Remove non-stable SVG features (#13488)
withastro/astro: .changeset/little-steaks-rule.md

Reviewer: Can you update the changeset by following this contribution guide? https://contribute.docs.astro.build/docs-for-code-changes/experimental-feature-docs/#breaking-changes-while-still-experimental

---
'astro': patch
---

Removing non-stable SVG features in preparation for releasing stable version.

Added:

> - `SVGComponent` type for easier passing of SVGs

Reviewer 2: Does this affect how people *use* the feature, or is this an internal implementation?

If internal, and not something people write out in their code, probably not necessary to mention here/in docs. 

However, you can describe this as a DX feature (if e.g. it helps with autocomplete or something?):

This release adds a new `SVGComponent` type for... (and whatever the advantage is).

Author: I'm going to remove this as it seems to be an incorrect usage.

> Removed:

Reviewer 2: So, all these `removed` things should tell people, with examples, how to update existing project code where these things might already be in use. 

For example, something like (forgive quick formatting here, just to give you an idea):

The `size` and `mode` component attributes have been removed to simplify the experimental API and focus on better DX at this early stage. If you were currently using these attributes, you must remove them from your components.

The `size` attribute can be replaced by explicity specifying identical `width` and `height` attributes. It is no longer possible to generate sprite sheets at this time. All components will inline the SVG content into your HTML output:

```diff
---
import Logo from '../assets/logo.svg';
---

- <Logo size={64} fill="currentColor" mode="sprite" />
+ <Logo width={64} height={64} fill="currentColor" />
```

Additionally, the `experimental.svg.mode` has been removed in this update. If you had set a default value for mode, you must remove it. `experimental.svg` now has no configuration options, and can only be set to `true`:

```diff
{
 experimental: {
-   svg: { mode: 'sprite' }
+  svg: true,
 },
}
```

(Also, not sure how a user compensates for this, but something like -- totally just making this up here to give you an idea):

Finally, this experimental SVG feature previously included the `role=img` attribute by default. However, this is no longer the case and has been removed in order to implement a better solution in future releases. For best accessibility practices, please add an appropriate role back on a component-by-component basis.

```
---
import Logo from './path/to/svg/file.svg';
---

- <Logo />
+ <Logo `role: 'img'` />
```

---
'astro': patch
---

**BREAKING CHANGE to the experimental SVG Component API only**

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Removes some previously available prop, attribute, and configuration options from the experimental SVG API. These items are no longer available and must be removed from your code:

```

> - The `title` prop has been removed until we can settle on the correct DX and a11y tradeoffs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `title` prop has been removed until we can settle on the correct balance between developer experience and accessibility. Please replace any `title` props on your components with `aria-label`:
```

  ```diff
  - <Logo title="My Company Logo" />
  + <Logo aria-label="My Company Logo" />
  ```

> - Sprite mode has been removed until we can find the correct implementation without the footguns of the previous approach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sprite mode has been temporarily removed while we consider a new implementation that addresses how this feature was being used in practice. This means that there are no longer multiple `mode` options, and all SVGs will be inline. All instances of `mode` must be removed from your project as you can no longer control a mode:
```

>   - The `mode` prop has been removed due to the removal of Sprite mode.
>     ```diff
>     - <Logo mode="inline" />
>     + <Logo />
>     ```
>   - The `mode` config option has been removed due to the removal of Sprite mode.
>     ```diff
>     import { defineConfig } from 'astro'
> 
>     export default defineConfig({
>     -  experimental: {
>     -    svg: {
>     -      mode: 'sprite'
>     -    },
>     -  }
>     });
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
```diff
- <Logo mode="inline" />
+ <Logo />
```

```diff
import { defineConfig } from 'astro'

export default defineConfig({
    experimental: {
  -    svg: {
  -      mode: 'sprite'
  -    },
  -  }
  +  svg: true
});
```
``````
Check the formatting on this, but I think it's sufficient to explain above, then just show the two code samples without nested bulleted lists. Also, they shouldn't delete the experimental config *entirely*, right? It should now just say `true`?

Reviewer: Yes that's correct, the option is still under `experimental`.

> - The default `role` is no longer applied due to developer feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The default `role` is no longer applied due to developer feedback. Please add the appropriate `role` on each component individually as needed:
```

  ```diff
  - <Logo />

>   + <Logo role="img" /> // NOTE: Only necessary if you wish to keep this functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  + <Logo role="img" /> // To keep the role that was previously applied by default
```

  ```

> - The `size` prop has been removed as developers expressed confusion on how it would work in combination with `viewBox` and additional styles/attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `size` prop has been removed to better work in combination with `viewBox` and additional styles/attributes. Please replace `size` with explicit `width` and `height` attributes:
```

---
'astro': patch
---

> The SVG import feature introduced behind a flag in [v5.0.0](https://github.com/withastro/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/CHANGELOG.md#500) is no longer experimental and is available for general use.

Reviewer: The feature **is still experimental**, judging by the code. I think, maybe, there's been a misunderstanding on how to reword the changeset. Here's the relevant paragraph: https://contribute.docs.astro.build/docs-for-code-changes/experimental-feature-docs/#breaking-changes-while-still-experimental

We just need to add at the top of the changeset the following:

```
**BREAKING CHANGE to the experimental SVG configuration only**
```

Author: Oh my gosh, how embarrassing 😂 Sorry for that! I'll get that updated today

Reviewer 2: Just checking @ematipico -- taking this out of experimental *might* be a plan for Launch week? Which now would be our next minor release. So, not sure whether this PR is intended as a patch first, or whether this will merge with the next minor at launch.

But yes, either the code needs to catch up to that, or the changeset needs to only discuss the remove the features. I'll wait to polish up the changeset until we have decided what the goal of this PR is!

Reviewer: @sarah11918 that's the plan, but that's not for this PR. We still have a memory leak that we need to fix, and if we can't fix it, we can't make the feature stable.

Author: Do you mind tagging that issue for me here? I'm having trouble finding where you pointed it out.

Reviewer: @stramel There's an issue for that, but there's a Discord thread: https://discord.com/channels/830184174198718474/1349441804193239150
